[](The Elder Runes, a HeroFlix Tale)

# <a name="id-0"></a> Foreword
---

My name is Baelic al Faar, and I am a Hero.

…I hope…

I record this story in the vain hope that my legacy will be one of good and decency. I pray that my tale will be told to inspire rather than as a warning. But destiny cares not for the wishes of mortals, and though I am long lived, eventually I’ll find myself just as much a victim of time as anyone. At the end of my life, will this account be lost and forgotten? I will tell it anyway, if only for those that traveled with me. They at least deserve to be remembered.
  
The stories of others deserve to be told, but if not by them, then why not by me. I only hope I can do justice to their valor. But how can I convey with mere words the vanity, the foolhardiness, the bullheaded...tenacity? ...The bravery. The pure hearted altruism. The faith and majesty and greatness embodied by them all. Their splendor.

I know not. I will simply have to try. Bear with me dear reader; this chronicle will tell the tale of a group of heroes that saved…*everything*.

# <a name="id-1"></a> Beginnings and Endings
---

In order to begin, I must start at previous endings. For you, this requires a brief foray into my youth. As happens to many of my kind, I was abandoned as a babe. As a half-elf, my mixed features were likely a curse to both my parents. I have no memory of them and know nothing of their trials, but I must judge them harshly for their decision to abandon me near a human farming village. Though I have no memory of my parents, I have a great many in that humble village. A young couple took me in and showed me kindness. They raised me next to their own son. They taught me everything they knew and treated me in all ways as though I was their own flesh and blood. They taught me what it means to be a family.

When I they felt I was old enough to understand, my parents set me down and told me of my abandonment. I knew of course that I was a different; my almond shaped eyes, slighter frame, and lightly tipped ears set me apart from everyone else in the village. But despite knowing my nature, they continued to treat me as one of their children, and the entire village turned a blind eye to my differences, accepting me as one of their own.

The cruelty of my origin did not make itself known until many years later. My kind does not age the same way humans do and it was with great sadness I watched my parents and siblings grow old before my eyes. Eventually I buried my adopted parents when they died of old age, and then later, I buried my brother. The farm went to my brother with the passing of my parents and to his children after him. I worked my family’s fields with my nephews and nieces and then eventually with their children as well. I learned many of the crafts of the village and, leaving the farm to my brother’s descendants, for a time knew a sort of peace as the local leatherworker.

My life was a bliss of tranquility until the day a travelling seer passed through the village. The crone sat in front of what passed for a village tavern, quite honestly, it was just a stoop in front of the chandler's shop, and told the fortunes of people for a few pennies. She entertained the locals with bits of fancy - who would marry soon, who would be with child, the bounty of the next harvest. I was just as amused as everyone else. When I took my turn at her hands, I expected more of the same; a successful hobby of woodcarving, or scandalous rumors of some farmer’s daughter fancying the local half-elf. Instead, the moment the old woman's hands touched mine, her eyes went wide, and she spoke reverently of fate.

She said that the village son of two races would soon find two paths before him. One would lead to greatness and glory, the path of a hero. The other would lead to ruin of all that he touched, a bane upon the world. Then she said those most cursed words, "It is not for you to know your destiny,” she rasped, “only history will tell if your existence was as a paragon or a plague."

I shook my hands free of hers and quickly stepped back. Everyone tried to laugh off the dire telling, to distance themselves from cruel fate, but the festive air had cleared. The villagers all somberly went back to their day and the seer packed her things and left that very night. Two days later, the beginnings of my fortune were forced upon me.

--

What started as a normal day of straightening up my shop and preparing for the day quickly turned sour when a farmer rushed breathlessly into the square warning everyone about a marauding beast. This wasn't the first time a roaming bear or wolf had required handling and the village was well prepared. The women, children, and elders collected themselves in the square, or sequestered themselves in their homes, while a party of men, me included, organized to meet the threat.

As we headed south out of town the men split into two groups. We were to converge on one of the farmhouses that boasted the most chickens, knowing that the flightless birds had often proven a tempting snack for dangerous beasts in the past. One pair continued southward, the other larger group went east to attempt to circle around uphill from the farm. I was part of the pair that continued south. Farmer Adams and I were to take our time so as not to arrive at the farmhouse before the larger group.

Our haphazard plan crumbled at the sound of children's screams.

A sick feeling opened up in the pit of my stomach and I sprinted toward the farmhouse; Adams yelling at my back that we had to wait for the others. I paid no attention. I rushed across the yard to see the front door of the cottage already broken in and hanging by its hinges, terrified cries coming from within. Running through the ruined door, I saw an orc with greataxe poised above two children. The children no doubt thought the threat was a common one and had tried to get a peek at whatever would eat their chickens. Instead they caught the attention of the evil creature. The beast, its intent never on livestock, had found a tempting target.

The orc turned its evil glare in my direction, momentarily distracted from its dark intentions by my entrance. In that moment of distraction, I did the first thing that came to my mind. Terrified of what was before me, I ignored the feeble rake I had armed myself with and grabbed a nearby lantern from its hook. I threw the lantern as hard as I could and had the brief satisfaction of seeing it hit the creature directly in the face. My elation lasted for only the briefest moment, for the shattering lamp spread oil in a great swath on and around the orc. The flames spread in explosive greed to consume anything the oil touched. The searing heat as the ramshackle hut caught flame was immediate and horrifying.

The orc bellowed in pain as the flames scorched its flesh, but to my dread, the loudest screams came from the children.

They say that the mind will protect itself from true horror. That may be true for I have no memory of what came after. I am told Adams pulled me from the burning building only moments before it collapsed. The burns on my arms and hands testament that I had tried, in vain, desperately to correct the worst mistake of my life.

The next day, in the ruined remains of the farmhouse, the corpse of the perished orc was found. The village mourned as the bodies of two children were found as well. 

I waited for the looks and blame. I wanted it. I needed it. I craved for the parents to seek justice and vengeance for their lost children. But the orc was blamed for everything. No one looked at me as anything other than a hero. A hero that stood up against an orc with nothing but his bare hands.

I could not stand their gratitude. I could not reconcile my faithlessness to a community that had given me so much. Over the next few days, I tried to find a way of confessing to everyone the truth of what had occurred. But whenever the words started to touch my lips, their blind gratitude would still my tongue. Instead they rallied to help me. They took care of my shop, they brought me food, they tended my burns and gushed gratefulness at every turn. How could I tell them the truth when they thought I was a hero? How could I betray this village that had been so kind to me? My thoughts inevitably went back to the words of the seer. Was I a hero, or was I a plague? Surely the village will remember me as a savior, but what of my soul?

As the weeks passed and my burns healed, a sourness began to press on my spirit. The village was no longer a home to me. I could not pass the burnt wreckage of the cottage without hearing the agonized screams. Unable to regain my former peace, I sought the road to escape. I traveled from town to town, running from my shame. My ruined hands and arms mark me wherever I go as someone who has suffered. I can see pity in the eyes of strangers and I secretly wish they could see deeper, to the scars inside.

Though not pretty to look upon, my hands eventually gained back all of their former dexterity. I first forced myself to carve wood and work leather until the scars stretched, the pain it brought was a balm to me; sweet penance. But the pain didn’t last, so I forced myself to learn the flute, and then anything with a string, the agony of it the only atonement I could find. Now my nimble fingers dance over the strings, keys, and valves of a number of instruments. My clear voice and the sweet notes of my songs a bitter disharmony to the cacophony in my soul. Strangers applaud my stories and songs never knowing why I leave town so quickly. It is because their gratitude stings me like a physical wound.
  
I rejected my fate. I realized that any attempt to meet it will only end in sorrow for those around me. I sought not to be a hero hoping that if I perform no heroic deeds, I invite no catastrophic repercussions. Still, the road has no lack of bandits; my nimble fingers and tongue have entertained many innocent souls, and my dexterous hands and sword have put many of the not-so-innocent to rest in roadside graves. Despite my attempts, I am becoming more recognized wherever I go. Indeed, tales from my village are told in taverns now and I attempt to hide my scars so as to not invite recognition.

I still run from my destiny, but if I am destined to be a hero of stories, I can try to minimize the death that comes behind me. I entertain in towns and taverns, telling dark stories and bright tales. I sing of heroism and banditry and use my fair face and silver tongue to earn enough coin to see me on to the next town. But in the night, after those I’ve entertained have gone back safely to their homes, I can still hear the tortured screams of children in my sleep.

# <a name="id-2"></a> Endings and Beginnings
---

No rest will not come this night. Already I can feel the first tendrils of dawn approaching.

I rub my tired eyes and look over at the body of my friend. The poison that wracked his body through the night had finally done its work; his last breaths rattled from his tortured lungs hours ago. I had sat in silence for hours, numb to the passing of time. Now his cold form is the only reminder of my purpose here.

Here, as it happened, was quite beautiful. I had made a hasty camp at the rim of a vale. A small stream tinkled and weaved brightly across the open landscape. On the other side of the brook, near the center of the vale, a mighty oak, hundreds of years old, rose into the sky. Beneath it a small delicate bridge arched over the stream and beyond rose a small stone dais amidst the waving grass of an otherwise empty field. Atop the dais stood a pedestal lit in golden hues from some unknown source. The object of our – now my – quest, was there.

The undeniable beauty of this place was lost to me. The trials of getting here had taken too much. The world was gray, and everything tasted and smelled of ash.

All around the edge of the vale was the wall of dark briar forest that made up the terrifying labyrinth our party had traversed. Many long nights in its clutches, and the lives of everyone in the party, had been spent to reach its center and the priceless treasure found here.

I look again over again at the cold form of my friend. Farrow, a ranger from far north, had found me performing in the town square of Amphail. He’d heard that I was fluent in Halfling and wanted me to do a translation for him. Truth be told, my knowledge of the halfling tongue was only passing, but I was in need of coin and saw no reason to commit to truth-telling for a complete stranger.

He had shown me a ridiculously small leather scroll with ancient writing on it. My curiosity and the promise of payment got the better of me; I could not at the time imagine what treasure would cause a halfling to record something forever on a scroll…and then not keep that treasure for themselves. But the scroll told of an ancient and terrible labyrinth with a priceless artifact at its center, the labyrinth itself promised death and doom to all that entered it. Halflings may not be able to resist treasure, but they generally avoid doom.

Farrow admitted that he was looking to gather a group to help track down this ancient artifact. He himself had been commissioned by a fringe scholar of Halfling history named Kwalish. Kwalish had traced this particular myth for decades but was now too old to undertake the required travels to obtain it. Kwalish found Farrow, and then Farrow had found me. He told me that he had heard tales of my heroism and that I seemed like a perfect first addition to his party.

My curse is insidious. Only tales of my heroism are told and not a word of the death that comes with it.

Despite my aversion to outright heroism, I sensed another opportunity to prove that my existence was more boon than bane to this world and so I agreed to help Farrow assemble his group. Over the next few days we recruited from local guilds and taverns and found ourselves accompanied by as rowdy a group of adventurers as had ever existed. They were fairly exuberant to go on a quest for a fabled artifact.

After outfitting ourselves as best we knew, we set off into the wild searching for the foul labyrinth. For a time, I was happy and free of dread. Our travels were successful, and the challenges easily overcome. Those days seem so far away now. Though it has only been a span of days, perhaps a handful of weeks, I was lighthearted and free of fear. I even thought I might be able to look back on these days and enjoy a drink with these rough people. I would have called them all my friends, even the druid and her absurd crow…I would have…if they had survived.

--

When we first approached the labyrinth, I experienced a sick feeling in my bones and I knew. From the moment I saw its cursed gates, I knew that my fate again had reared its head. I trembled in fear at what would become of my new comrades, of my new friend Farrow. Despite the ancient warning, Farrow determinedly focused on moving ahead. The rest of us having no purpose without him, resolutely prepared to follow. We entered the gates.

Of the days and nights spent in that dark maze, most will remain unspoken. There is no daylight under the dark boughs of the labyrinth, so our first night spent in its clutches became one long endless night of terror. The first to fall, seemingly only hours after entering the dark gates, was our Druid. A wight surprised us in the darkness and before we even know of the danger, she was gone. The time blurred even more as we fled ever onward to the center of the maze. Danger and tragedy around every corner. The very maze itself seemed to be hunting us, leading us, tempting us with brief succor, before striking at us from the darkness, deadly and terrible. Eventually every one of our party fell, but Farrow and I remained. I could see the look in the eyes of my friend. Determination. Resignation. He knew we would not survive this journey. I knew that one of us likely would, and I mourned.

At long last, we came round a corner and beheld the exit. A dark arch, lit from beyond, promising safety and journeys end. After the trials we had suffered, even Farrow was at coming to the end of his bravery. He fairly sobbed with relief to see the gates and stuttered into a run. But the labyrinth is nothing if not cunning. A creature seemingly made of wind and poison and terror whirled into existence nearby and sought to destroy the last of our hope.

In the battle with the elemental that ensued, only pure luck allowed us to escape; I unscathed, Farrow, fatally poisoned. I dragged his insensible form through the gates and made a hurried camp. I tried desperately to save him, using every medicine, spell, and bit of herblore I knew. But as the night dragged on, and the fire grew dimmer, and as he grew weaker, my meager hope dwindled…and my friend breathed his last just moments before dawn, when everything was darkest. My fate is tragically poetic.

Now I lift my eyes from the face of Farrow and see the sky beginning to lighten. I stand up and dust off my legs, gather my belongings, and prepare to end this ill-fated quest. As the first breath of light simmers over the horizon, I walk down into the vale toward the great tree there. Its boughs firm and unswaying. A light breeze rustles it leaves.

The tinkling brook babbles lightly in the cool air as I walk under the tree toward the bridge. A filigreed construction of silver and crystal, the bridge sings in the sighing breeze, a beautiful counterpoint to the brook it spans. As I cross the bridge, I am blind to the wonder of its construction or beauty. My eyes focus on the end of my quest; the stone dais in the field beyond.

As I approach the dais, I see a set of crude stairs ascending one side and make my way there. The steps themselves and even the platform are unremarkable in form, the only notable thing being their presence in this place of beauty at the center of this larger place of horror. Thoughts of completing my quest for the distant Kwalish are faint in my mind. I no longer care. I climb the steps and walk to the pedestal at the center.

And a bitter laugh escapes my lips.

Atop the simple marble plinth lies the most beautiful instrument my eyes have ever seen. A dulcimer of surpassing beauty and undeniable magic. The golden body and delicate arch of its neck complimenting a perfect set of silver strings that fairly hummed with anticipation and potential. A faint, almost invisible golden glow emanated from its risonanza. After every trial, after every death, and every torment, to present me with this most perfect of bardic instruments. Surely my curse is mocking me.

Once again my presence has brought destruction. Once again I find myself the unlikely hero. The one that survives beyond all hardships and trials.

I sigh in resignation. I can no more resist this most perfect object than I could resist breathing, or gravity. I can feel it pulling at me. I can hear it calling to me. I feel as though I’m falling toward it and I watch my hands reach out to grasp its perfect neck. I pull the dulcimer to me and cradle it in my arms before setting my hands and striking a perfect chord on its perfect strings. The perfect golden sound that results doesn’t seem to even come from the instrument but emerges from the air and the ether and the heavens…and then everything disappears.

# <a name="id-3"></a> Home to Heroes
---
###### (2019.02.15)

When the room formed from the nothingness around me, the first thing I noticed was that the dulcimer was gone. This did not surprise me. What did surprise me as I looked down was that the burns on my arms and hands were completely healed, no trace remained. Even that one bit of justice has been denied me. Now there is nothing to remind me of my darkest deeds. No punishment for my crimes.

I bitterly mused about the cruelty of my path and then looked up to find myself in strange, but not unfamiliar, surroundings. Office-like in nature, though of a design I’ve never encountered. A strangely smooth ceiling and four comforting walls marked by two doors in the wall opposite me, and a set of double doors in the wall to my right. Several people in neat yet bizarre garments occupied a number of chairs against the two walls not marred by doors. The room contained several low tables between some of the chairs with brightly colored bits of paper spread atop them in a way that attempted, but failed, to be decorative. The setting seemed altogether like some form of reception room for a guildhall, though of what profession I could not say. Next to a glass tank containing several colorful fish, a man sat at a desk clearly making an effort to pretend he was the only person in the room. The clerk, if that is his profession, sat studiously staring at a box-shaped object with some form of magical light coming from the side facing him despite the presence of the motley crew all muttering in the various chairs around the room. There are some things that will always remain the same.

The various people in the room all began talking at once and I was hard pressed to keep up with what was being said. The most spirited discussion seemed to be coming from one group and it became clear that five of these folk had arrived together, though, I must admit, I questioned if their sanity had survived the journey intact.

While the five argued and frantically tried to make sense of their situation, one of the silent chair occupants stood and approached the man at the desk. He had a quick but clear conversation where the clerk named himself “Chad” and let the man know that if we wanted to leave, all he had to do was exit through the double doors.

The five stopped talking abruptly as soon as Chad began to talk and then turned as one to watch the man stride to the doors, throw them open, and hastily step through.
  
On the other side of the doors was madness.

A swirling vortex of color and dark and light that defied description or belief. No hallway or fading of vision, as if the fabric of existence had been cut away in the square shape of a door. The few moments that my eyes were exposed to that chaos was enough to set my head reeling and my stomach churning. Chad had told the man that through the doors was “anywhere he wanted to go”, but the thought of stepping through did not seem like an act of sanity.

The doors slowly swung back on their own, a near silent click as they closed, and the room was back to its mundane self again. The group of five was silent for a mere moment before they all collectively confronted Chad demanding to know what was going on. With a calm that clearly spoke of years of professional service dealing with the frantic and desperate, Chad loudly talked over everyone saying that we had been selected for our heroism and that “Duncan” would soon make everything clear.

Hearing this, and not wanting to spend too much time thinking about the doors leading to chaos, I resigned myself to waiting. As it happened, all of my gear and equipment had made the transition to the room with me, so I brought out my lute, briefly tuned the strings, and began to play a light but jaunty tune about boredom. Despite the strange circumstances, two of the people in the room decided the join me in my time wasting by dancing to my half-hearted strumming. The halfling in particular seemed to make an effort to dance sensually in my direction, but I averted my gaze not wanting to encourage him.

Around us, several of the people continued to argue amongst themselves about what to do, occasionally berating Chad for not providing them more information, while others waited patiently in their chairs. One of them seemed happy to simply smile and nod along with my music. Eventually, one of the people seemed on the verge of abandoning his comrades and turned toward the double doors. My fingers briefly faltered at the thought of seeing that maelstrom again, but before he could open them, one of the doors behind Chad opened up and a well-dressed charismatic man stepped through.

Conversation in the room stopped as the newcomer introduced himself as Duncan. Duncan wore a smartly lined set of pants and odd jacket of a matching color, a tightly closed collared shirt, and a bright length of fabric knotted around his neck. His strong jaw was thinly covered in a light dusting of beard as though he hadn’t seen a razor in several days, but for some reason the effect was rugged and handsome rather than slovenly. All in all, he was an impressive sight. Clearly someone who was used to the rougher side of the road and had only recently stepped away from adventuring himself. He invited us all to come to his office where he would explain everything.

I get slightly ahead of myself. I should take a few minutes to describe the important others in the room.

Jephanie Pepsi was a human and I could easily predict that she was familiar with a fight and could hold her own without trouble. Of all the assembled, she also seemed to be the only person present that was concerned with the “why” of our situation.

There was also a bald human named simply ‘Q’. He had almost left the waiting room through the maelstrom before Duncan had arrived. I could tell his impatience and impetuousness would cause no end of trouble.

A Dwarf named Mardred, or Margret, confused me at first. I couldn’t quite tell their name as they seemed to not know themselves. The dwarf was a weak and spineless creature altogether inconsistent with the hearty race I knew. Perhaps this was a different race altogether. I assumed they were merely confused by the circumstances and would return to typical staunchness soon enough.

The one that caused me the most disquiet was Adrien the elven wizard. With his high collar and low hood, I couldn’t tell immediately of what elven race he belonged, but I suspected him to be a High Elf. Knowing the feelings of elves in general and high elves specifically towards my own race, I worried what trouble this might bring.

The rowdy halfling was named Roscoe, and though I questioned his sanity -- he appeared to be only wearing some form of brightly colored loincloth and boots, like some gaudy troupe fool playacting as an effeminate barbarian -- this wasn’t all that different from other halflings I had met in my travels. They are a uniquely insane race. I enjoyed a brief conversation with him as we walked, even going so far as to mention my curse, knowing that no one would believe this deranged creature anyway.

Two others walked with us down the hall, but I paid them no heed as they stuck to themselves and did not deign to speak to the rest of the party. I had no knowledge of what had brought this group together in the first place or what bizarre providence had placed me in their midst so soon after the death of my friend. Loss and acceptance being my constant companion for the last several decades, I vowed to quickly catch up to what was happening around me and not be a hindrance. I would do my best to ensure my curse did not make victims of this group.

After a short walk down the solemnly lit hallway, we came to a solid door. Duncan opened it and ushered us all into a spacious office. The office itself was well appointed with several tasteful chairs for guests. One wall was covered in a floor to ceiling bookshelf containing numerous volumes of unknown content as well as several knickknacks and memorabilia, no doubt from Duncan’s adventured past. The room was dominated by a spacious expanse of desk, clearly made of the finest and rarest wood. Its surface sparsely occupied by a neat stack of papers, a cylinder containing an odd assortment of strange quills, and a box-like object similar to the one that Chad the clerk had been viewing in the previous rooms.

After we’d all settled in on one chair or another, Duncan began to tell us of the runes.

The runes, the known ones at least, were discovered accidentally centuries ago by Duncan himself, and when he arrived in this place-in-between-planes, an elder being was there to greet him. The Elder briefly showed him the way of the runes and how to use them, and then Duncan began to learn what the runes had to offer. Duncan learned that the runes contained a great power; the ability to transfer a person across the planes of existence. But even more, they opened up to a seemingly infinite number of planes. The thought of more planes that even described by the great wheel made my head spin. I couldn’t even remember all of the 26!

These planes, Duncan continued, are infinite in their variety, and besides being able to move people from plane-to-plane, the runes have the ability peer into these planes and observe. Even more, they have to ability to impart a measure of control of the circumstances of a person’s travel and arrival. My mind balked at this, though I could understand how travelling to another plane might alter a person’s being, I couldn’t understand how the traveler might alter the plane itself before arriving.

Eventually, after spending many years searching for runes, Duncan returned to the place-in-between-planes to find that the Elder was no longer present. Not knowing what to do next, Duncan started the organization which occupies the building I currently find myself. Here, in the organization which he calls “HeroFlix”, Duncan and his guild control all of the known runes and continue searching for more. I have no understanding of their skill or trade, but Duncan says that he sells stories across the infinite planes; stories of heroes, and more specifically, stories of a specific kind of hero; Rune Hunters.

The selling of stories is something I fundamentally understand and so I found myself listening intently to Duncan’s words, but though Duncan might be a seller of stories, and appears to be a man of integrity, something sinister began to infiltrate my thoughts. These runes are too powerful for one man, or even one organization to control. I even went so far as to ask Duncan about the danger they represent. Malevolence is common to all the planes, regardless of their orientation on the wheel, and if one malicious being gains control of a rune, they may use them to bring destruction to all of creation.

Despite controlling numerous runes and the organization spending centuries tracking down many of them, Duncan admitted that an unknown number of runes remain undiscovered. Our own arrival in the waiting room was the result of uncatalogued runes. Mormesk, a malign spirit, or wraith, was the first to discover and use the previously unknown rune in the Wave Echo Cave. The name of this place was unfamiliar to me, but based on the reactions of the others in the room, it held meaning to them. Further, the realization that the undead could find and use the runes gave even more credence to my thought that these runes were a discovery not meant for mortals, or even this existence.

After triggering the rune in Wave Echo Cave, Mormesk was transported to the HeroFlix guildhall, and by some miracle, was restored to his former mortal self in the process; a powerful and benevolent mage. Duncan indoctrinated Mormesk into the runes just as we were at that moment, and Mormesk offered to hunt runes for the guild. But once beyond the protections afforded by the in-between, Mormesk reverted back to a wraith. There, his undead form controlled his actions more than his rational mind and he would return to his more evil self. Though Mormesk had returned on several occasions to the in-between, and thence to his senses, the call of the runes could not be denied. Mormesk would eventually attempt to recover the Wave Echo Rune again, only to revert and lose control of himself once more.

Duncan is in desperate need of help. He confessed that it has been a long time since anyone has seen Mormesk and he fears the worst. Duncan then asked for our help. Will we help him find the unknown runes? Will we be heroes for his cause? Will we become Rune Hunters?

# <a name="id-4"></a> Anexi's Analogies
---
###### (2019.04.19)

After Duncan’s impassioned plea to become rune hunters for his cause, everyone seemed drained. Too much had happened too fast and we all needed time to realign with this new way of looking at existence. We tentatively agreed to help Duncan after getting some rest, and he concurred, saying that we’d all be shown to the rooms that had been prepared for us. 

I don’t know how they had rooms prepared for us when we were us when Duncan explicitly told us we had been unexpected, but I was sure the magic of this place had more surprises in store. A non-descript man in crisp but utilitarian garb met me outside of Duncan’s office and …

{INSERT DESCRIPTION OF HQ}

{INSERT DESCRIPTION OF ROOM}

{INSERT DESCRIPTION OF QUARTERMASTER}

Thus passed the most relaxing and uneventful week of my life to date. Seldom have I known such luxury -- to peruse the library and study, to sit idly by the fire and pluck at the strings of my lute while sipping the finest wines -- but in the back of my mind I knew that eventually I would have to return. My destiny wouldn’t allow me to stay in the Nexus forever. The call of the runes and the danger they represent pushes against the back of my mind and cannot be ignored. 

During the week I also spent some time talking to Duncan about my life and how I reached the Nexus. After recounting my sad tale, he told me that my story reminded him of an inventor by the name of Kwalish who dabbled in extraordinary creations, both wonderous and terrible, and that both the labyrinth and the dulcimer sounded like something he would create. Of course, I knew that name. Kwalish was the name of the supposed halfling scholar that sent Farrow and I on our disastrous trip. I owed Kwalish a relic…and he owed me a life.

After several days spent idly perusing the accommodations of the Nexus, I received a note in my rooms requesting my presence in Duncan’s office that afternoon. Expecting to hear more about runes and hoping to finally take some action, I prepared myself for the possibility of a journey by gathering a few essentials and heading to the administrative side of the Nexus.

Duncan’s offices were as magnificent as I recalled. Every shelf was spotlessly dusted, the books lining them perfectly aligned. Even a sturdy looking crystal decanter filled with an amber liquor, surely of superlative quality, spoke of the care taken to maintain this room. Though, upon entering, I was lightly taken aback by the large fireplace framed by the bookshelves at the side of the room, a cheerful and cozy fire crackling in the hearth. I was absolutely positive there hadn’t been a fireplace on that wall the first time we had visited these offices. The mysteries of this place continued to amaze.

Several others trailed into the room shortly after I arrived including two I had seen before; Ardren the high elf and Millicen the hill dwarf. Two others introduced themselves as Saulk, a woodsy looking human, and Umifrar, a stout dwarf who introduced himself as “the Unmanned”. Everyone took a seat on the various comfortable chairs and couches in the room as Duncan came around to sit on the edge of his desk to address us.  

Duncan said that he’d found some information regarding the circumstances surrounding my unfortunate entrance to the Nexus. The inventor Kwalish, was last known to have set sail from the Port Nyanzaru on the northern Chultan peninsula decades ago. I knew he could not still be there as my own ill-fated mission from him to the cursed labyrinth happened only weeks before, practically on the other side of Faerun, but in Nyanzaru we might find more information. If we could retrace his journeys over the last several years, we might be able to piece together a picture of the rune of the labyrinth as well as discover how Kwalish was connected to the runes at all. 

We were to seek out a gnomish map maker named Anexi, also known as “the cartophile”. Anexi was a renowned cartographer who had also been searching for Kwalish and might know more of his whereabouts. Our mission was simple; seek our Anexi and ask him what he knew of Kwalish. Why we needed five people for such a simple request seemed strange to me, information seeking was something I was especially gifted at, but Duncan insisted that a full party was always required when rune hunting, even if it was only expected to take a few hours, so we acceded to his superior experience.

As this was expected to be a short and simple excursion, none of us required extensive preparation, though Ardren did go so far as to take the crystal decanter of fine liquor from Duncan’s desk. I’m sure Duncan noticed, but said nothing….and then we made our way to the waiting room where the ever-present Chad tapped away at his usual station. 

I prepared myself mentally for what was to come next. We had to pass through the portal. My heart thudded in my chest as Saulk casually pulled the double doors open. Easy for him, he’d been in the Nexus for several weeks and had been on several rune hunting missions before. The maelstrom of nothing awaited beyond the doors, even as my eyes attempted to twist away from looking, I could feel the presence of that chaos throbbing in my skull. I wrenched my eyes forward into the space-less space and put on a brave face

Duncan told us that the doors would take us just outside the city but away from anywhere inherently dangerous and that the “key” to return was a G5 chord; he winked when I looked at him in confusion before assuring me that it would makes sense when we arrived.

And so I took a deep breath, and stepped into nothingness…

Immediately I felt nothing. No body, no sound, no vision. I couldn’t even tell if I had fingers or hands anymore. I may have been just a mind drifting through the ether for an eternity. Eventually, though I could not tell time or even estimate duration, a sense of color started to return to me. Then sensation. Then shapes. Then feeling the weight of my body settle onto my feet as the ground appeared and the rest of the world faded into existence before my eyes. 

As my vision cleared, I noticed several things. First, the stiffness of my hands and fingers told me that my burn scars had returned. This gave me a strange feeling of relief; I had been running from them for so long that to have them taken from me had actually left me adrift. I found I had missed the persistent reminder of my past. Far more astounding however, in my scarred hands I held the magnificent dulcimer from the labyrinth. Its beauty stilled my heart again as I gazed upon its perfect shape. I longed to sit and play its strings, but I remembered Duncan’s final words to me and understood; this dulcimer wasn’t just a perfect instrument, it was also our gateway back to the Nexus. Somehow its perfect craftmanship embodied one of the elder runes. Casually roaming the world with an exposed rune made me nervous. I didn’t know who or what might recognize its potential, so I resolved to keep its secret hidden. I reluctantly slung the dulcimer over my shoulder and threw my cape over it in what I hoped was a casual way, attempting to mask its splendor with feigned indifference. 

Another thing I noticed was Umifrar. He had lifted his kilt-like garment and was looking intently at his groin; I was shocked that not only was he wearing nothing beneath the loose garment but that he would so casually expose himself. My shock was replaced with disquiet when I noticed he was completely smooth down below; the unmanned indeed.

We found ourselves in a grassy clearing on a steep hillside overlooking a small city surrounded by lush green jungle on a great bay that I assumed was Port Nyanzaru and the Bay of Chult respectively. My own knowledge of geography being a little rusty, this still was in keeping with what I knew of the southern parts of the world. We began our short walk to town following the directions Duncan had given us to find the mapmaker. He was to be found somewhere in the Merchant’s Ward. We traversed the gates and found ourselves in the western part of the city. After briefly asking for directions, we were told the mapmaker likely placed his storefront in the luxurious Grand Souk market. Traders and merchants from all along the Sword Coast came to this place to trade in the rarest of commodities. If Anexi’s maps were as good as his reputation indicated, this was where we would likely find him.

Without trouble, we found the shop. A small but elaborate sign proclaimed it as “Anexi’s Analogies”, and so we walked in. The shop was tidy as to be expected of such a niche professional in the wealthy part of the city, but the maps on display were magnificent in their detail. More maps than I had ever seen and covering more of Faerun that I knew existed. There were even maps displayed that I knew could not be of Faerun…did this man have maps of other planes?

A small professional looking gnome in a suit waited at the small counter and was about to warmly greet us when behind us the door to the shop burst open, and another gnome in some form of wheeled chair rolled stutteringly into the shop wailing at the top of his small lungs. He was yelling about how he was ruined, begging for help. We stepped aside in confusion as the chaired gnome rolled to the counter and started sobbing and crying to the shopkeeper…something about making commitments he could not fill, how his shop would revert to the banks, and he would be homeless and destitute if someone didn’t help him. 

I exchanged dubious glances with my comrades and gathered from this exchange that they were either family or friends of some kind. When I made questioning eye contact with the fellow behind the counter, he made a shamed face and apologized for his brother’s dramatics. He introduced himself as Anexi and the sobbing chair-bound fellow was his brother Graxi. He told us he would be with us as soon as he could, then turned again, attempting to calm his brother.

We stood around uncomfortably for a few moments as Graxi continued to sob and sniffle, stuttering out how he would never be getting the right mushrooms in time. Without wanting to interrupt, but still needing his assistance, I told Anexi over the sobbing heap of his brother that we were looking for information and that our time was not unlimited. He apologized again, talking over his bawling brother and said that when Graxi got like this there wasn’t much that he personally could do until he got calmed down. 

I frowned, suspecting that this display was something they had practiced, but inwardly preparing myself for the inevitable.
“Would it help if we offered our assistance?” I sighed. 
Graxi immediately calmed, turning his chair in our direction, his wet red-rimmed eyes glistening as he gazed hopefully in our direction. He said that our assistance would be greatly appreciated and that he would be deeply indebted to us if we could provide him with what he needed. He was an apothecary of some renown and had obligations to meet this very day. He just needed the final ingredients for his potions, some mushrooms that could only be found in the fairy grove outside of town. His usual sources were unavailable to retrieve the valuable ingredients because of other obligations, but if we could retrieve the mushrooms, he would gladly share with us some of the excess potions. Anexi then chimed in and said that he would happily provide us with information if he had it, free of charge if we helped his bother.

I glanced at my companions, resignedly took a breath, and then told Anexi that we agreed. We would help his brother in return for a share of some of the excess potions, a map of the area surrounding the city that included the fairy grove, and any information he could give us about Kwalish.

Anexi looked stunned at the mention of Kwalish, but then grimly nodded his head. “A deal’s a deal,” he said “It will take me time to refresh my memory of Kwalish anyway. Help my brother and anything I know I will tell you.”

Graxi started describing the characteristics of the mushrooms we were supposed to help him find while Anexi produced a rough copy of a more detailed map of the area that included the grove. The details inside the grove were unclear and Anexi apologized for that stating that Fey groves tend to change their layout making mapping near impossible. The map placed the grove a short distance outside the city with four entrances from the cardinal directions of north, south, east, and west. Graxi also noted that his usual suppliers each had their own methods for getting the mushrooms from the grove and that maybe we could ask them for instruction. This seemed like sound advice to me, so I noted the names of each supplier on the rough map as well as where they might be regularly found. They were Marin Peretta, a jeweler, Seprin Court, a minstrel, Azrak Mouzra, a local magister, and Len Sou Na, a toymaker.

As we left the shop, I scanned the list of names Graxi provided. I assumed that a magister wouldn’t put himself into much danger for mushrooms and so we decided to go and ask Azrak about how he gathered them from the potentially confusing and dangerous grove. He lived not that far away from our location on the edges of the ward and so we left to find his house. A few minutes later, unsure if his duties would take him from his home, I knocked at his front door. 

Azrak appear a dry and boorish man, clearly predisposed to monotonous city official work. When we asked him about gathering mushrooms for Graxi, he said that mushroom picking was a hobby of his and that he never had trouble with the dryads of the eastern grove. They disliked dishonesty and as long as you clearly stated your business and had no veiled intentions, they would typically offer you no harm.

I glanced briefly at my companions that I knew nothing about and remembered the elder rune shaped like a magical dulcimer I was making a poor attempt at disguising on my shoulder. I had doubts as to our ability to bypass the grove fey without trouble. I decided we should ask a different one of Graxis’ sources.

My next best guess would be Seprin Court. I felt I knew my way around the minstrel profession and suspect that if this man could make it into the grove unharmed, so could I. Seprin supposedly was playing at a tavern a short distance away from Graxi's shop called the Glittering Dragon and we made our way there.

Upon entering the tavern, we were greeted by the typical mid-day crowds. A few scattered patrons sat eating their meals or drinking their drinks, a low hum of conversation rumbled through the room. A man sat on a stool near the fireplace casually strumming a lute and singing. The tune was one I was familiar with, a common request for a tavern minstrel. One always plays to the crowds if you want to earn your meals. We casually made our way across the room and stepped up to the sturdy wooden bar and I asked the barkeep if the man playing was Seprin. The kindly looking man confirmed that was him, so I ordered a drink. The rest of the party stepped up to the bar as well, each ordering their respective favorites. I suspected they were more than happy to take a time out from our mission for drinks.

As I sipped my drink, Seprin finished his song, put away his instrument, and then stepped toward the bar. As he came near, I complimented him on his playing and asked for a word. I told him that I appreciated his playing and was something of a minstrel myself. His eyes immediately fell on the dulcimer on my back and stared in awe before stammering out an introduction. I asked him about his forays into the fey forest to gather mushrooms and he fairly fell over his words telling me about how the southern entrance was guarded by a faerie dragon and a satyr, but both had a love of music, drink, and fine food, and so he’d never had any trouble gathering there. I thanked him for his time along with a promise to return sometime and play the magical dulcimer for him for which he was grateful. 

The rest of the party hearing about a satyr decided to fill their packs with extra liquor and some food from the bar, but I suspected the satyr was simply and excuse, they would have drunk regardless. Either way, considering the way Seprin had gushed over the magical dulcimer, I suspected word of our presence would soon be making the rumor circuit. I decided we should be making our way quickly in order to avoid any fuss. After gathering everyone up, we referenced Anexi’s map, and decided that the southern entrance used by Seprin would be the easiest for us to approach, and quickly made our way back out onto the streets. 

We made good time leaving the city and after an hour of walking the jungle trails, we found ourselves cresting a cleared ridge that gave way to a small valley. The trees in the grove looked somehow greener and more peaceful than any other stretch of jungle in sight. The sound of the breeze fairly sparkled as it blew across the treetops and butterflies could be seen floating about the greenery. Truly a magical place.

We descended into the valley and entered to grove from the south through a gap in the trees and shrubbery. There a small but clear path led deeper into the cool green tunnel of trees. Only after a few moments under the branches we could easily tell that this place was magical and protected. The oppressive heat of the jungle noticeably lessened to a cool comfortable level. An overwhelming sense of serenity permeated the air. Small creatures crossed the path in front of us without fear, and the breeze that ruffled our hair and sighed past our ears contained the sounds of tinkling laughter. 

Sensing the magic of this place, I brought out the dulcimer and began to play. Though the instrument itself was a potentially dangerous rune relic, I wanted it close to hand if we needed to make a quick escape. Besides, something about this place made me want to play music. 

As I began to play, Saulk started and stared at Ardren. It took everyone else only a moment to see a tiny blue dragon the size of a common housecat sitting on his shoulder. It’s eyes half lidded as it nodded along to the tune I was playing. Ardren, confused about what to do about the tiny creature, reached into his bag and offered it some food he had acquired from town. The dragon lightly nipped at the food before taking a larger bite and swallowing delightedly. Then it nuzzled into Ardren’s cheek, emitted a tiny pleased trill of sound, and promptly vanished. A smile played across my lips as the wonder of this place began to seep into my soul. We continued deeper into the grove, me playing a jaunty tune and everyone else peacefully walking ahead.

Further on the brush began to grow dense and off the trail to the right we could start to hear faint music, different from my own. The lovely lilting melody sounded delightful, so I made an effort to accompany it. The song was frustratingly hard and for a moment, I almost lost my composure, but something snapped within me and suddenly I could feel the soul of the music playing through me and the magical dulcimer. As my playing intensified, we peered over the brush to see a goat legged man with tiny nub horns playing a set of panpipes. He smiled broadly, beckoning us to join him.

The peace of the grove overcame our senses and we eagerly left the trail at his summons. As we crossed the brush, he stood and started dancing along to our combined music. Ardren and Umifrar offered the faun some of our drink which he graciously accepted, somehow enjoying the drink, yet never stopping dancing. I continued to play the theme of the music the satyr had started and soon he began to play along again. The song was so charming that when the horned man started to dance further into the forest, it never occurred to us not to follow. He danced along for several minutes all of us in tow, me playing along on the dulcimer. 

Eventually the music came to a break, and as if by magic, the short man vanished. Ardren and Umifrar looked around as though coming out of a deep sleep, both clearly confused as to where we were or how we’d gotten there. I belatedly realized that the fey creature had charmed them, and I had assisted. I hid my guilt by ceasing my playing and helping Saulk the ranger get our bearings. We quickly figured out how to return to the trail and I vowed not to get distracted again.

We continued back along the original trail deeper into the forest until we came to a small clearing. The center of the clearing was cut through by a sparkling stream lined with an incredible variety of mushrooms of all colors and sizes, from small to enormous, standing as tall as a man. In fact, several of the mushrooms appeared to man shaped. My jaw dropped as I realized that some of the mushrooms were I fact humanoid in shape and were walking amongst the other mushrooms, tending them.

We slowly approached the Myconid people and started quietly searching the ground for the mushrooms Graxi had sent us for. We spotted them in the creek on a small island in the middle of the stream. Not wanting to aggravate the strange mushroom creatures, Millicen asked if we could harvest some of their mushroom in exchange for food and drink. The creatures responded in the strangest way; small puffs of spores clouded out of fin-like vents in their faces, and at the same time mellow voices could be heard in our heads. Promising some of the strong liquor Ardren had purchased form the barkeep in town was enough to convince the creatures to let us take what we needed.

While the party gathered the required mushrooms, I again played the dulcimer. I suspected its magic was beginning to affect me in ways I couldn’t understand. The music it produced seemed to weave its way into your soul; I was beginning to crave the feel of the strings on my fingers. It certainly had an effect on the fey creatures, and it seemed to be impacting the Myconids as well; they all stared raptly in my direction as I played, gently swaying in place.

My group completed their mushroom picking and managed to gather several Torchstocks, Waterorbs, Bigwigs, and Nilhog’s Nose; all the required ingredients for Graxi’s potions. We collected them into our various packs, and I trailed off playing the addicting music. We left the mushroom copse and returned back the way we came. The trail out of the grove was uneventful and we saw no more of the fey. As the afternoon passed, we eventually made it back to the city and made our way to Graxi’s shop.

We handed over the requested mushrooms and he was very grateful. He gave us several potions as thanks and then returned to the back of his shop to finish up his delayed orders. We left Graxi’s and made our way to Anexi’s Analogies once more. When we found Anexi, he thanked us for helping his brother and agreed to tell us everything he knew about Kwalish.

Years and years ago, Anexi had been searching for Kwalish himself. Kwalish had made several of the tools that Anexi used in making his wonderfully detailed maps and wanted to discuss with him the possibility of more tools. Unfortunately, he arrived in Port Nyanzaru too late to catch up with Kwalish. Kwalish had gathered a party and set sail on an expedition to the Barrier Peaks in search of the lost city of Deowin Glowigh. That was the last time anyone had seen or heard of him. That was 30 years ago.

My heart sank. I knew Kwalish was alive and active, he had sent my friend farrow on the ill-fated quest for the very dulcimer I was carrying not more than a few weeks ago. But somehow the rest of the world lost his trail decades ago. Anexi asked if we too were in search of Kwalish’s legendary laboratory, saying that it would be the find of a lifetime. I sadly shook my head and told him that our search was for other reasons but thanked him for his time.

I gave a nod to the rest of the party and they all circled around me right there in Anexi’s map shop. I brought out the dulcimer and ---tensing slightly ---played the chord that Duncan had said was the key to our return to the Nexus. 

The note struck on the magic strings and seemed to echo into the very fabric of my being, resonating into my bones. As the vibrations traveled along my skin, a faint numbness followed, and the world faded away before my eyes…


